She asked why some
unmarried people who love each other deeply can't be together
for various reasons,
and why some married people have
secret affairs, even though they love each other very much, but
can't leave their spouses to be
together? This is a very common question
in life, isn't it? The
first point is, if unmarried people love each other but can't be together for
various reasons, is it because they have a connection but no debt? Because these two people have a connection, they love each other but don't
have a debt,
so they ca
n't repay each other. There's nothing for one to repay the other, or for the other to repay the first.
In marriage, there are many borrowings and
repayments: the wife is sick, the husband takes care of her, right? If the husband is sick, the wife takes care of the child; if the child
misbehaves, the parents suffer; if the child is well-behaved, the
parents benefit.
Marriage is a
very close relationship of borrowing and repaying; before
payday, the wife is already asking the husband for help, right?
So, we have many borrowings and repayments,
what we call "debts and karmic connections." And what about the other
person?  There's a bit of a connection, a
chance to fall in love, but if there's no debt, then there's no
repayment. The second issue is
more serious. When someone is married
but has an affair, they
love each other deeply but can't leave their spouse
to be together.
I'll divide this into two
points: first, the past, and second, the present. In the
past, they also had a connection.
Because those affairs
cost money, right? Yes, they
cost money, meaning one person still has to
pay the other, and the other pays the first. There's a
debt, right?
Why wouldn't I
have an affair
with this guy, but with that guy? So, there's a karmic debt, but this karmic debt
in the
present causes a lot of negative karma,
which is lying, right?
Constantly lying to the wife, lying to the husband. That means they continuously create negative karma
without any reduction.
Then they lose their
parental responsibilities to their
children, right? In
their current lives, they create negative karma...
My children can't respect me because of the
karma I'm creating, because I have
n't brought them any good reputation,
right?
These people had a debt from a past life,
but now they're creating bad karma for each other. That
means two people in the same environment are
creating karma for each other, and
later they will suffer the consequences. So
this debt is not good, but
completely evil. They love each other, but they
don't bring happiness to each other,
right? They
do the same thing together, and then
they both suffer, like two
people holding hands and jumping into a ravine.
Even though they're together, they're going to a
place of death. According to Yen,
the reason is that in their previous lives, these two people
were enemies, and now they meet again.
Yen is
just giving an example. Yen really hates
Thanh, so she always thinks about
Thanh, right? Thanh
hates Yen, so she always thinks
about Yen. In this life, Yen
and Thanh are enemies, so they hate each other,
right? Hating each other only makes you want to...
What do they give each other? Only
suffering. So, if Yen harbors hatred towards
Thanh, wanting Thanh to suffer,
and Thanh remembers Yen and hates her, causing Yen
suffering, then there's a kind of love involved—they
constantly think of each other, right?
So, when these two are born and meet again in this life,
because of that love, they fall in love,
right?
Because they miss each other
so much, they fall in love.
But the karmic consequences, the
retribution, cause them to be ignorant and
unable to remember that they want to
make the other suffer. They mistakenly
believe they can't live without
each other. But in reality, they constantly
cause each other suffering, creating negative karma.
According to this way of thinking,
these two people are in a relationship because in a
previous life they hated
each other intensely and always wanted to make each other
suffer, which is why they have these secret affairs in this life. Do you
feel comfortable with
this answer? So, if you want to
end these karmic debts,
don't have a relationship, right?  I already have a
family, and when I realize I love someone,
I know that in a past life, we
hated each other intensely, only wanting
each other to suffer misfortune and pain.
So, let's
end this relationship; don't have an affair. If you love
someone who already has a family, or if you
love someone who already has a family, just
say, "Let's let go of this hatred." Let's
not hold grudges anymore; let's go our
separate ways and do good deeds. Just don't
meet each other like this. Evil should be moderate.
If we meet now, while we're still
in the human realm, and we have an affair, it creates a lot of hatred. That's what
the Buddha taught in the scriptures: if you have much love but little thought, you'll
sink into the world and suffer greatly.
So, we shouldn't have an affair and should uphold the
Buddha's precept against adultery.
All young people, or those with
families, know that
this "outside the law" love is between two people who
have a deep-seated hatred and want each other to suffer.
In Buddhism, this is
called "
delusion," a delusion of suffering, a delusion of pleasure.  Resentment is
mistaken for love, isn't it? Making each other
suffer is mistaken for bringing
happiness. That's madness! You think happiness is sadness,
sadness is joy, suffering is bliss, and happiness is
suffering.
Because we are Buddhists, when we understand
all things clearly, we will
become good people.